H-601, H-1254: Add `hash.ai/learn` content (#2069)
hashintel/hash: apps/hashdotai/docs/hash/working-with-data-in-pages/using-blocks-in-pages.md

---
title: Using Blocks in Pages
slug: hash/working-with-data-in-pages/using-blocks-in-pages
objectId: ???
description: Using Blocks in Pages
---

# Using Blocks in Pages {#using-blocks-in-pages}

> In order to view, create, or manipulate data or information in HASH, you’ll need to use Blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to view, create, or manipulate data or information in HASH, you’ll need to use blocks.
```

## How Blocks work with Entities, Links, and Entity Types {#how-blocks-work-with-entities-links-and-entity-types}

> Blocks can render and manipulate Entities, Links, Entity Types, and even Property, Data, and Link Types, though this is less common. Blocks can also create new Entities, Links, and Entity Types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blocks can be render, create, update and delete entities, properties and links, as well as (less commonly) types.
```

You might use a Block which renders some Entities and Links which already exist in your HASH Workspace. Or you might use a Block to create new Entities of an Entity Type which doesn’t exist yet. Since Blocks are developed by third-parties, there is a huge range of possible data workflows which they enable.

## The default Block: Paragraph Block {#the-default-block-paragraph-block}

When you create a new Page in HASH, a Paragraph Block will automatically be inserted at the top of the page and your cursor will be placed inside the block, ready to type. HASH does this so that Pages can be used to quickly capture some writing.

> The Paragraph Block creates a Text Entity in your HASH Workspace. The Text Entity conforms to the Text Entity Type, which is a non-editable system type. As you write in the Paragraph Block, the ‘Tokens’ Property on the Text Entity is updated to capture your text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The paragraph block creates a `Text` entity in your workspace. The `Text` entity conforms to the `Text` entity type, which is a non-editable _system type_. As you write in the paragraph block, the ‘Tokens’ property on the `Text` entity is updated to capture your text.
```

Do we need to talk about system types? It seems like extra/unnecessary information for most users. As, frankly, does explaining how the paragraph block works at all (e.g. 'tokens' property).

Reviewer: @jtewright @CiaranMn @Alfred-Mountfield for thoughts.

Reviewer 2: While reading it, I did feel like it was slightly strange to describe the inner workings of the blocks and types. But if this is supposed to be a guiding walk-through of blocks in HASH, how they work with entity types, etc. then our text blocks are going to be fairly confusing without us explaining them. (Ideally we'd just avoid them and walk through something much simpler).

The hook service, the `Tokens`, ProseMirror, all of that makes them pretty confusing and if we're trying to say "hey you can insert a block", and then "you can go look at / edit types associated with your block", then as a user I'd try and look at the paragraph block and.. :panic:

Author: I added this bit about the Paragraph block and Text type cos it was the only block/type which was working and I ended up in the Type Editor sidebar for the Text type, so thought I should explain it.

Reviewer: I feel like we should just pick another block that will work once updated to 0.3, and use this. Framing it in terms of `Text` is just a bit confusing/unnecessarily abstract for most people thinking about what "Entities" and "Types" are (IMO).

Reviewer: @jtewright Could you pick another block for this? e.g. `Countdown`

> Hitting the return key in the Paragraph Block will create a new Paragraph Block below the first one. Each Paragraph on a Page will be its own Block. You can tell this from the [...] context menu on the left of the block, from the comment button on the right of the block, and from the —[+]— button which appears above and below the Paragraph when you hover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hitting the return key `⮐` in the paragraph block will create a new paragraph block below the original. Each paragraph on a page exists an individual block. You can tell this from the [...] context menu on the left of the block, from the comment button on the right of the block, and from the —[+]— button which appears above and below the Paragraph when you hover.
```

> Hitting the return key in the Paragraph Block will create a new Paragraph Block below the first one. Each Paragraph on a Page will be its own Block. You can tell this from the [...] context menu on the left of the block, from the comment button on the right of the block, and from the —[+]— button which appears above and below the Paragraph when you hover.

Reviewer: @jtewright How were you imagining the `—[+]—` would be styled?

> Hitting the return key in the Paragraph Block will create a new Paragraph Block below the first one. Each Paragraph on a Page will be its own Block. You can tell this from the [...] context menu on the left of the block, from the comment button on the right of the block, and from the —[+]— button which appears above and below the Paragraph when you hover.

Author: I was trying to represent that button which is like a horizontal line with plus symbol in the middle. Might be best to just describe it as the [+] button though since the dashes either side are probably confusing.

> ![alt_text](images/image5.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: Image flag

## The Block context menu {#the-block-context-menu}

> The [...] button on the left of the block is its context menu, providing a set of options:

Reviewer: Should we convert the [...] into an inline rendering of the icon?

> 1.  **Load block from URL**: this is for block developers to test their Blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  **Load block from URL**: allows _block developers_ to load in blocks from a URL to test them out during development. This option will be hidden in 'production' deployments of HASH (including that found on `hash.ai`) and will only be present when running HASH locally in development mode.
```

> 1.  **Copy Link**: this copies a link to this specific block to your clipboard. Opening this link will open the Page and show a visual highlight next to the block which was linked to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  **Copy Link**: copies a link to this specific block to your clipboard. Opening this link will open the page and show a visual highlight next to the block which was linked to.
```

> 1.  **Edit Block**: this opens the Entity Editor for the Entity attached to this Block in a side-bar overlay on the right of the screen. Edits you make to the Entity will be reflected in the Block immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  **Edit Block**: opens the "editor" for the entity attached to this block in a side-bar overlay on the right of the screen. Edits you make to the entity will be reflected in the block immediately.
```

> 1.  **Configure**: this opens the block’s configuration menu. Not all blocks have configuration options. Those that do allow for things like the customization of the block’s UI or the toggling of different features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  **Configure**: opens the block’s configuration menu, if available. Not all blocks have configuration options. Those that do allow for things like the customization of the block’s UI or the toggling of different features.
```

> 1.  **Delete**: deletes the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  **Delete**: removes a block from the current version of a page.
```

## Inserting a Block {#inserting-a-block}

> The easiest way to insert a new block is to type a “/”. This will open a menu of all the different types of Blocks available in HASH. You can scroll through this list or continue typing to search. Hitting return will insert the currently selected block in that menu, but you can also click on the block you want. The “/” command works in the Paragraph, Heading, and Callout blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to insert a new block is to press the `/` key on your keyboard. This will open a menu of all the different types of blocks available in HASH. You can scroll through this list or continue typing to search. Hitting return will insert the currently selected block in that menu, but you can also click on the block you want. The `/` command works in almost any text-based block.
```

The —[+]— button, which appears above and below a Block on hover, also lets you insert new blocks. Depending on whether it’s above or below the current block when you click it will insert a new block in the corresponding position.

## Lifecycle of a Block {#lifecycle-of-a-block}

Since each block is different, and published by a different developer, they each have unique user experiences. However, they will typically follow one of two life cycles:

1.  **Operating on existing data lifecycle**
    1.  The block will query your Workspace and ask you to select which Entity Types, Entities, or Links you want to use with it.

>     1.  After you have selected which data to use, the block will render that data and give you further manipulation and rendering options, depending on what the block is for. \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1.  After you have selected which data to use, the block will render that data and give you further manipulation and rendering options, depending on what the block is for.
```

1.  **Creating new data lifecycle**
    1.  The block will query your Workspace for the relevant Entity Type(s) it needs to create new data, creating them if it doesn’t find them.
    1.  The block will then go into an editing mode (e.g. writing, drawing, creating a diagram), creating and updating new Entities and Links as necessary to save the data which you create.

Some blocks combine these approaches.

## Reordering Blocks {#reordering-blocks}

> Clicking and dragging on the [...] block context menu lets you reorder the blocks on your page. As you drag, you’ll notice a line will appear which indicates where the drop will move to in the order of blocks on the page if you drop it.

Reviewer: Should we convert the [...] into an inline rendering of the icon?

## Commenting on a Block {#commenting-on-a-block}

You can comment on a block by clicking the speech bubble icon, which appears as you hover on the right. Comments are attached to the whole block. You cannot comment on segments of text.

## Mentioning other users {#mentioning-other-users}

> In addition to the “/” command, you can type “@” inside the Paragraph, Heading, and Callout blocks, as well as while writing a Comment, to _mention_ other users. A menu will open showing all users on HASH, not just those within your Workspace. Selecting one of these users will insert their name after an “@” symbol in the text you were writing. This name will be clickable, taking you to their profile, and the user will be notified that they’ve been mentioned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the `/` command, you can type `@` inside the Paragraph, Heading, and Callout blocks, as well as while writing a Comment, to _mention_ other users. A menu will open showing all users on HASH, not just those within your Workspace. Selecting one of these users will insert their name after an `@` symbol in the text you were writing. This name will be clickable, taking you to their profile, and the user will be notified that they’ve been mentioned.
```
